the 7 real world steps toa fully functional webite

1) define your project


define the goal of the project  --> this is what do you want to achieve with yoour  project it can be showing your portfolio to the world, selling your ebook, designing a music downloading site or whatever you want


define your audience  --> who are the people that is going to visit your site, know them so that you can build the site according to that specification  this is important becuauseyou have to design with your goal and your audience in mind


                summary

1. Define your project

Start off by defining the goal of your project. This can be showing your portfolio to the world, selling an e-book, building a blog, etc.
Also define your audience. Ask yourself: which is the typical user that will visit my website?
This is important, because you should always design with your goal and audience in mind.




2)   plan out everything

once your project is defined plan out your content carefully this includes text, images, videos, icons etc

 
 start thinking  about visual hierarchy,  your should start thinking about what you want in your website and what you don't, defining the content first before you start building is called the content first approach this is very good before you start out, it means that you should design for the content instead of designing a webpage and then filling it with some stuff


 define the navigation

 define the site structure if it is a bigger project, you can sketch out the website

               summary

       2. Plan out everything

Once your project is defined, plan your content carefully. This includes text, images, videos, icons, etc.
Remember what I told you about visual hierarchy. It plays an important role when you start thinking about what you want on your website and what you don't. Defining the content before actually starting the design is called the content-first approach. It means that you should design for the content, instead of designing a webpage and then filling it with some stuff.
Define the navigation.
Define the site structure. You can draw a sitemap in this step if we're talking about a bigger project.




 3)  sketch your ideas before you design

 get inspired and think about your design you can go see other good designing website to get inspired


 get the ideas out of your head: sketch your ideas before you start designing this will help you to explore ideas and create a concept of what your want to build using papers and pencils is a good way to preserve your ideas


 make as many sketches as you want, but dont make it perfect by this don't spend too much time trying to perfect your sketch but rather spend more time on perfecting your html and css  


never start designing without  having an idea of what you want to build getting inspiration is the way to go  


          summary

3. Sketch your ideas before you design

Now it's time to get inspired and think about your design.
Then, get the ideas out of your head. And with that I mean that you should sketch your ideas before you start designing. It will help you explore ideas and create a concept of what you want to build. Using pencil and paper is a great way of quickly retaining your valuable ideas.
Make as many sketches as you want, but don't spend too much time perfecting anything. Once you have an initial idea, you can concentrate on the details when designing in HTML and CSS.
I advise you to never, ever start designing without having an idea of what you want to build. Getting inspiration is very important in this phase, and I already told you how to do that!


4)design and develop your website

after you are through with sketching start designing your website using guidelines and tips you've learned in the web design section

you will do that with html and css which is also called designing in the browser which is designing and developing at the same time


use sketches, content and planning decisions you've made in steps 1, 2, and 3 


this step is the biggest part of building a website, but: all steps are important


              summary


4. Design and develop your website

After sketching, start to design your website using all the guidelines and tips you've learned in the web design section.
You'll do that using HTML and CSS, which is called designing in the browser. Designing in the browser is basically designing and developing at the same time.
There are more and more designers leaving traditional design programs such as Photoshop and start designing in the browser. The biggest reason for this is that you can't design responsive websites in photoshop. It also saves you tons of time.
In this phase, you'll use your sketches, content and planning decisions you've made in steps 1, 2 and 3.






5) optimization


optimize performance site speed

search engine optimisation (seo)  you don't want a slow website or the one no one can find



           summary

5. It's not done yet: optimization

Before you can actually launch your beautiful masterpiece for the world to see it, we have to optimize its performance in terms of site speed.
You also need to do some basic search engine optimization (SEO) for search engines such as google.


6) launch the masterpiece


you will need a webserver to launch your website to the whole world



              summary

6. Launch the masterpiece

Your optimized website is now finally ready to launch.
All you need for launching is a webserver that will host your website and deliver it to the world.




7) site maintenance 


lauching is not the enc of the story

monitor your users  behaviour and change the website if necessary


update your content regularly: so that users can known your website is alive one way to achieve that is by using a blog to update regularly 


              summary
7. Site maintenance

The launch of your website is not the end of the story.
Now it's time to monitor your users' behavior and make some changes to your website if necessary.
You should also update your content regularly in order to show your users that your website is alive! For instance, a blog can be a great way of doing that.
